README.md, before:

# @jimib/shaw-design

A comprehensive design system package for Shaw Heritage micro-apps, providing shared design tokens, Tailwind presets, Styled Components themes, and reusable React components.

## 🚀 Features

- **Design Tokens**: Centralized colors, spacing, and typography
- **Tailwind CSS Preset**: Easy integration with Tailwind projects
- **Styled Components Theme**: React theming with TypeScript support
- **Reusable Components**: Pre-built Button, Logo, Card, Input, Label, and Layout components
- **Layout System**: Complete page layouts with Header, Sidebar, and Main content areas
- **Navigation Components**: NavMenu and Menubar for building navigation interfaces
- **Storybook Documentation**: Visual component library and design token showcase
- **TypeScript Support**: Fully typed design system

## 📦 Installation

```bash
npm install @jimib/shaw-design
```

## 🎨 Usage

### Design Tokens

```typescript
import { colors, spacing, typography } from "@jimib/shaw-design";

// Use colors
const primaryColor = colors.primary; // 'hsl(320 65% 65%)'

// Use spacing
const padding = spacing.md; // '16px'

// Use typography
const fontFamily = typography.fontFamily.sans; // ['Inter', 'system-ui', ...]
```

### Tailwind CSS Integration

1. Install the package in your Tailwind project
2. Add the preset to your `tailwind.config.js`:

```javascript
import sharedPreset from "@jimib/shaw-design/src/tailwind/preset.js";

export default {
  presets: [sharedPreset],
  content: [
    // your content paths
  ],
};
```

### Styled Components Integration

```tsx
import React from "react";
import { ThemeProvider, GlobalStyles } from "@jimib/shaw-design";

function App() {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider>
      <GlobalStyles />
      <YourApp />
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

### Using Components

```tsx
import React from "react";
import {
  Button,
  Logo,
  Card,
  CardHeader,
  CardContent,
  CardTitle,
  Input,
  Label,
  PageLayout,
  Header,
  Sidebar,
  SidebarProvider,
  SidebarHeader,
  SidebarContent,
  SidebarMenu,
  SidebarMenuItem,
  NavMenu,
  NavMenuItem,
} from "@jimib/shaw-design";

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <SidebarProvider>
      <PageLayout
        showSidebar={true}
        sidebar={
          <Sidebar>
            <SidebarHeader title="Shaw Heritage" showLogo={true} />
            <SidebarContent>
              <SidebarMenu>
                <SidebarMenuItem active>
                  <a href="#">Dashboard</a>
                </SidebarMenuItem>
                <SidebarMenuItem>
                  <a href="#">Collections</a>
                </SidebarMenuItem>
              </SidebarMenu>
            </SidebarContent>
          </Sidebar>
        }
        header={
          <Header
            title="Shaw Heritage CMS"
            showLogo={true}
            logoVariant="shaw"
            actions={
              <NavMenu variant="minimal">
                <NavMenuItem>
                  <a href="#">Dashboard</a>
                </NavMenuItem>
                <NavMenuItem>
                  <a href="#">Settings</a>
                </NavMenuItem>
              </NavMenu>
            }
          />
        }
      >
        <Card variant="gradient">
          <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Welcome to Shaw Heritage</CardTitle>
          </CardHeader>
          <CardContent>
            <div className="space-y-4">
              <div>
                <Label htmlFor="email">Email</Label>
                <Input id="email" type="email" placeholder="Enter your email" />
              </div>
              <Button variant="cms" size="lg">
                Sign In
              </Button>
            </div>
          </CardContent>
        </Card>
      </PageLayout>
    </SidebarProvider>
  );
}
```

## 🎯 Components

### Button

A versatile button component with multiple variants and sizes.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'primary' | 'secondary' | 'accent' | 'outline' | 'ghost' | 'cms'
- `size`: 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg'
- `disabled`: boolean
- `onClick`: () => void
- `type`: 'button' | 'submit' | 'reset'

### Logo

A responsive logo component with multiple variants including Shaw Heritage branding.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'dark' | 'light' | 'shaw'
- `size`: number (default: 120)

### Card

A flexible card component with multiple background variants.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'gradient' | 'vintage'
- `children`: React.ReactNode

### Input

A styled input component with transparent and default variants.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'transparent'
- All standard HTML input attributes

### Label

A styled label component for form inputs.

**Props:**

- All standard HTML label attributes

### Layout Components

#### PageLayout

A comprehensive layout component that combines header, sidebar, and main content areas.

**Props:**

- `showSidebar`: boolean - Whether to show the sidebar
- `sidebar`: React.ReactNode - Sidebar content
- `header`: React.ReactNode - Header content
- `mainVariant`: 'default' | 'centered' | 'full-width'
- `containerSize`: 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg' | 'xl' | 'full'

#### Header

A flexible header component with logo, title, and actions support.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'minimal' | 'hero'
- `showLogo`: boolean
- `logoVariant`: 'dark' | 'light' | 'shaw'
- `title`: string
- `subtitle`: string
- `actions`: React.ReactNode

#### Sidebar

A responsive sidebar component with mobile support and context management.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'floating' | 'inset'
- `children`: React.ReactNode

#### Navigation Components

##### NavMenu

A flexible navigation menu component with multiple variants.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'pills' | 'underline'
- `orientation`: 'horizontal' | 'vertical'

##### Menubar

A horizontal menu bar component for application menus.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'minimal' | 'bordered'

### Pre-built Layouts

The design system includes several pre-built layout combinations:

- `AuthLayout`: Centered layout for authentication pages
- `DashboardLayout`: Full dashboard layout with sidebar and header
- `ContentLayout`: Content-focused layout with header only

## 🎨 Design Tokens

### Colors

- **Primary**: Shaw Heritage Purple/Magenta palette (hsl(320 65% 65%))
- **Secondary**: Dark purple palette (hsl(312 20% 18%))
- **Accent**: Matching primary accent (hsl(320 65% 65%))
- **Backgrounds**: Dark theme with HSL color system
- **Gradients**: Primary, card, and vintage gradient options
- **Shadows**: Elegant and glow shadow effects
- **Semantic**: Success, warning, error, info colors

### Spacing

- **Base Scale**: 4px increments (0, 4px, 8px, 16px, etc.)
- **Semantic**: xs, sm, md, lg, xl, 2xl, 3xl, etc.
- **Component-specific**: Button padding, input padding, card spacing

### Typography

- **Font Families**: Sans (Inter), Serif, Mono
- **Font Sizes**: xs (12px) to 9xl (128px)
- **Font Weights**: 100-900 range
- **Text Styles**: Pre-defined combinations for headings and body text

## 📚 Storybook

Run the Storybook development server to explore components and design tokens:

```bash
npm run storybook
```

Visit `http://localhost:6006` to view the component library.

## 🛠 Development

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 16+
- npm 7+

### Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the package
npm run build

# Run Storybook
npm run storybook

# Watch mode for development
npm run dev
```

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── tokens/           # Design tokens (colors, spacing, typography)
├── tailwind/         # Tailwind CSS preset
├── styled/           # Styled Components theme and global styles
├── components/       # React components
├── assets/           # Logo assets
└── index.ts          # Main export file
```

## 📝 License

MIT

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 Changelog

### 0.1.0

- Initial release
- Design tokens (colors, spacing, typography)
- Tailwind CSS preset
- Styled Components theme
- Button and Logo components
- Storybook documentation

Commit message:

Update package.json and README for React version compatibility; enhance TypeScript configuration and component styles. Add support for React 19 in peer dependencies and update documentation to reflect compatibility. Introduce style prop in Button, Card, and Separator components for improved customization. Modify NavMenu variant options and adjust layout styles in Header and NavMenu components.

README.md, after:

# @jimib/shaw-design

A comprehensive design system package for Shaw Heritage micro-apps, providing shared design tokens, Tailwind presets, Styled Components themes, and reusable React components.

## 🚀 Features

- **Design Tokens**: Centralized colors, spacing, and typography
- **Tailwind CSS Preset**: Easy integration with Tailwind projects
- **Styled Components Theme**: React theming with TypeScript support
- **Reusable Components**: Pre-built Button, Logo, Card, Input, Label, and Layout components
- **Layout System**: Complete page layouts with Header, Sidebar, and Main content areas
- **Navigation Components**: NavMenu and Menubar for building navigation interfaces
- **Storybook Documentation**: Visual component library and design token showcase
- **TypeScript Support**: Fully typed design system

## 📦 Installation

```bash
npm install @jimib/shaw-design
```

### React Version Compatibility

This design system supports both React 18 and React 19:

- **React 18**: Full compatibility with all features
- **React 19**: Full compatibility with all features and new React 19 capabilities

The package uses modern React patterns and is built to work seamlessly across both versions.

## 🎨 Usage

### Design Tokens

```typescript
import { colors, spacing, typography } from "@jimib/shaw-design";

// Use colors
const primaryColor = colors.primary; // 'hsl(320 65% 65%)'

// Use spacing
const padding = spacing.md; // '16px'

// Use typography
const fontFamily = typography.fontFamily.sans; // ['Inter', 'system-ui', ...]
```

### Tailwind CSS Integration

1. Install the package in your Tailwind project
2. Add the preset to your `tailwind.config.js`:

```javascript
import sharedPreset from "@jimib/shaw-design/src/tailwind/preset.js";

export default {
  presets: [sharedPreset],
  content: [
    // your content paths
  ],
};
```

### Styled Components Integration

```tsx
import React from "react";
import { ThemeProvider, GlobalStyles } from "@jimib/shaw-design";

function App() {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider>
      <GlobalStyles />
      <YourApp />
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

### Using Components

```tsx
import React from "react";
import {
  Button,
  Logo,
  Card,
  CardHeader,
  CardContent,
  CardTitle,
  Input,
  Label,
  PageLayout,
  Header,
  Sidebar,
  SidebarProvider,
  SidebarHeader,
  SidebarContent,
  SidebarMenu,
  SidebarMenuItem,
  NavMenu,
  NavMenuItem,
} from "@jimib/shaw-design";

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <SidebarProvider>
      <PageLayout
        showSidebar={true}
        sidebar={
          <Sidebar>
            <SidebarHeader title="Shaw Heritage" showLogo={true} />
            <SidebarContent>
              <SidebarMenu>
                <SidebarMenuItem active>
                  <a href="#">Dashboard</a>
                </SidebarMenuItem>
                <SidebarMenuItem>
                  <a href="#">Collections</a>
                </SidebarMenuItem>
              </SidebarMenu>
            </SidebarContent>
          </Sidebar>
        }
        header={
          <Header
            title="Shaw Heritage CMS"
            showLogo={true}
            logoVariant="shaw"
            actions={
              <NavMenu variant="minimal">
                <NavMenuItem>
                  <a href="#">Dashboard</a>
                </NavMenuItem>
                <NavMenuItem>
                  <a href="#">Settings</a>
                </NavMenuItem>
              </NavMenu>
            }
          />
        }
      >
        <Card variant="gradient">
          <CardHeader>
            <CardTitle>Welcome to Shaw Heritage</CardTitle>
          </CardHeader>
          <CardContent>
            <div className="space-y-4">
              <div>
                <Label htmlFor="email">Email</Label>
                <Input id="email" type="email" placeholder="Enter your email" />
              </div>
              <Button variant="cms" size="lg">
                Sign In
              </Button>
            </div>
          </CardContent>
        </Card>
      </PageLayout>
    </SidebarProvider>
  );
}
```

## 🎯 Components

### Button

A versatile button component with multiple variants and sizes.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'primary' | 'secondary' | 'accent' | 'outline' | 'ghost' | 'cms'
- `size`: 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg'
- `disabled`: boolean
- `onClick`: () => void
- `type`: 'button' | 'submit' | 'reset'

### Logo

A responsive logo component with multiple variants including Shaw Heritage branding.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'dark' | 'light' | 'shaw'
- `size`: number (default: 120)

### Card

A flexible card component with multiple background variants.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'gradient' | 'vintage'
- `children`: React.ReactNode

### Input

A styled input component with transparent and default variants.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'transparent'
- All standard HTML input attributes

### Label

A styled label component for form inputs.

**Props:**

- All standard HTML label attributes

### Layout Components

#### PageLayout

A comprehensive layout component that combines header, sidebar, and main content areas.

**Props:**

- `showSidebar`: boolean - Whether to show the sidebar
- `sidebar`: React.ReactNode - Sidebar content
- `header`: React.ReactNode - Header content
- `mainVariant`: 'default' | 'centered' | 'full-width'
- `containerSize`: 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg' | 'xl' | 'full'

#### Header

A flexible header component with logo, title, and actions support.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'minimal' | 'hero'
- `showLogo`: boolean
- `logoVariant`: 'dark' | 'light' | 'shaw'
- `title`: string
- `subtitle`: string
- `actions`: React.ReactNode

#### Sidebar

A responsive sidebar component with mobile support and context management.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'floating' | 'inset'
- `children`: React.ReactNode

#### Navigation Components

##### NavMenu

A flexible navigation menu component with multiple variants.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'pills' | 'underline'
- `orientation`: 'horizontal' | 'vertical'

##### Menubar

A horizontal menu bar component for application menus.

**Props:**

- `variant`: 'default' | 'minimal' | 'bordered'

### Pre-built Layouts

The design system includes several pre-built layout combinations:

- `AuthLayout`: Centered layout for authentication pages
- `DashboardLayout`: Full dashboard layout with sidebar and header
- `ContentLayout`: Content-focused layout with header only

## 🎨 Design Tokens

### Colors

- **Primary**: Shaw Heritage Purple/Magenta palette (hsl(320 65% 65%))
- **Secondary**: Dark purple palette (hsl(312 20% 18%))
- **Accent**: Matching primary accent (hsl(320 65% 65%))
- **Backgrounds**: Dark theme with HSL color system
- **Gradients**: Primary, card, and vintage gradient options
- **Shadows**: Elegant and glow shadow effects
- **Semantic**: Success, warning, error, info colors

### Spacing

- **Base Scale**: 4px increments (0, 4px, 8px, 16px, etc.)
- **Semantic**: xs, sm, md, lg, xl, 2xl, 3xl, etc.
- **Component-specific**: Button padding, input padding, card spacing

### Typography

- **Font Families**: Sans (Inter), Serif, Mono
- **Font Sizes**: xs (12px) to 9xl (128px)
- **Font Weights**: 100-900 range
- **Text Styles**: Pre-defined combinations for headings and body text

## 📚 Storybook

Run the Storybook development server to explore components and design tokens:

```bash
npm run storybook
```

Visit `http://localhost:6006` to view the component library.

## 🛠 Development

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 16+
- npm 7+
- React 18+ or React 19+

### Setup

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Build the package
npm run build

# Run Storybook
npm run storybook

# Watch mode for development
npm run dev
```

### Project Structure

```
src/
├── tokens/           # Design tokens (colors, spacing, typography)
├── tailwind/         # Tailwind CSS preset
├── styled/           # Styled Components theme and global styles
├── components/       # React components
├── assets/           # Logo assets
└── index.ts          # Main export file
```

## 📝 License

MIT

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests if applicable
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 Changelog

### 0.1.0

- Initial release
- Design tokens (colors, spacing, typography)
- Tailwind CSS preset
- Styled Components theme
- Button and Logo components
- Storybook documentation
